We'll now talk about part II
of our two-stage completion
methods discussion.
The previous part, part I,
talked about two-stage methods
that did and-ing conjunction.
This one, we'll talk
about two-stage methods
that do or-ing or disjunction.
The particular method we're
going to look at in this case
is called acceptEither.
And as you can see,
it's going to take
either result that
finishes first and then do
some action in response.
This is an example of
a logical disjunction.
It will work whether one
finishes or the other.
And it'll handle the result of
either of the previous stages
results.
Once again, there are two
functions that are used here.
One of them will be the function
that invokes acceptEither,
which we don't see of
course in the signature,
but it's implicit,
and the other will
be the future that's
passed to acceptEither,
which is called other.
So when either of those
finish, then the action
will be called back.
And as you can see, this
is a consumer action.
Go back over here.
It's consumer action.
And that means
there is no return.
So it just is a
CompletableFuture to void.
And by returning a
CompletableFuture to void,
it means that we can't
get a result back for it.
Although we can go ahead
and Join on it and have it
wait until it's
finished running.
You would, typically, use the
method here, the acceptEither
method, at the end of a
chain of completion stages.
Probably not that useful to put
anywhere else unless you have
a Join or something after it.
But it is often useful
to put at the end.
So let's talk about a
kind of a fun example
to illustrate how this
particular method can be used.
What we're going
to do here is we're
going to create two
CompletableFutures that
will contain the results of
sorting a given list using two
different algorithms in two
different background worker
threads in the ForkJoinPool.
So that's pretty cool.
And we're going to do
this because despite all
the schooling you may have
had with analyzing, sorting
algorithms in terms of their
asymptotic time, complexity,
and best case and worst
case and average case,
it's still, honestly, a bit of a
crapshoot as to which algorithm
is fastest for any given input.
So is quickSort best
to sort this list?
Is mergeSort best
We don't really know.
So rather than try to sit
there and guess and probably
guess wrong,
instead, we're going
to take advantage of this
proliferation of cores
that we have in our brave new
multicore and many core world,
and we're going to go ahead
and run both those sorting
algorithms at the same
time, in parallel.
And then we're going
to use acceptEither
to take the result
from whichever
one happens to finish first.
So if quickSort
finishes first, we're
going to print the results
of the output from quickSort.
If mergeSort
finishes first, we're
going to print the results
of the output of mergeSort.
Now, it turns out that
acceptEitehr does not
cancel the second future
after the first one completes,
and that's by design.
It may turn out that
that CompletableFuture
is needed for something else
in some other computation,
so it doesn't
bother canceling it.
Besides, as we
talked about before,
canceling is a little bit
wonky with CompletableFuture,
so it really wouldn't save you
anything in the first place.
But the bottom line is that
whichever one finishes first,
we'll take its result
and we'll simply
ignore the other result
that comes whenever
it comes, if it ever comes.
What we do here is we
take the results list,
and for each element in
the list, we go ahead
and we print out the
result in mixed fraction
form, proper fraction form.
So this is a really
neat example.
It really demonstrates what you
can do with a multicore world
where you've got a proliferation
of processing resources,
and you can be extravagant
and do a whole bunch of things
in parallel, and
just pick the winner,
and not care about
the fact that you're
burning CPU cycles wantonly.
It's often perfectly OK.